Jonah, The Man



Jonah is tending to his yard.  As noise is heard from afar.  The sounds of parties and laughter.

Jonah looks up and shakes his head as he continues to work around his home.

Jonah:  Such evil ways.Ninevites.

God VO : Jonah, son of Amittai.

Jonah looks around trying to see where the voice is coming from.

God VO : Jonah slowly looks up towards the sky.

God Vo: Jonah, you hear me talking to you.

Jonah :To me?

God: Get up and go to the great city of Nineveh!

Jonah:  Nineveh?  Ah come on, Lord, those guys are rough, their mean.Send a angel or something.

God VO: Get up and go!

Announce my judgment against it because I have seen how wicked its people are.

Jonah : You've seen their wickedness, and you want me to go.  I can't fight.  What I'm gonna do?  I love you Lord and everything, but I don't see the point.  Not only are they not going to listen, but they gonna beat me up.  Lord.  God.  You still there?

Ah man.

Jonah goes inside and packs something.  He starts off on the road to Nineveh then when he thinks God ant looking he takes off the other way.

Jonah starts looking behind him back at Nineveh and begins Running.  He passes a town sign "welcome to Joppa".

Joppa's residence are walking around, people are on the docks.  People are wearing different type clothes from different eras.  He goes down to the seacoast, to the port of Joppa.

Sailor#1: Hey look here man, you wanna buy this sack?  It's made of fine linens and things, what you say?

Jonah: Ah, no, no thank you.

Sailor#1 : What about you?

Sea Man#1: No!

All aboard!

Sailor#1: Alright then alright.  I'll be on the ship, if you change your mind just let me know.

Sea Man Last call.  All Aboard!

Jonah: Hey mate, where you headed?

Sea Man#1: We're leaving for Tarshish.

Jonah: Can I buy a ticket?

Sea Man#1: Sure but you better hurry, we're pulling out.

Jonah buys a ticket and goes on board, hoping that by going away to the west he could escape from the LORD.  As the ship starts to sail along, suddenly the LORD flings a powerful wind over the sea, causing a violent storm that threatened to send them to the bottom.  Fearing for their lives, the desperate sailors begin to shout to their gods for help and begin to throw the cargo overboard to lighten the ship.

Sailor#1: Okay, okay.  So the sack ant mine.  I'm sorry Lord.  Don't be mad Lord.  Help me Lord!

Sailor#2 : The gods are angry, Ahhhhhhhhhh!  (As he jumps overboard)

All this time Jonah is sound asleep down in the hold.

Sea Man#2: Captain what should we do.  The winds are too fierce.  We could all die.

Sea Man#1 : There is a strange man aboard.  He's asleep down in the hold.

Captain: How can anyone sleep during all of this?

Sea Man#1: I said he was a strange man.

Captain: Do you think that he could have something to do with all of this?

A woman runs inside the captains station, holding a necklace.

Woman: Did we hit an ice berg?

Captain,Sea Man#1, Sea Man #2: Ice berg?

Sea Man#2: Just a few of years off sweetie, this is not the titanic.  Now calm down and go somewhere till we call you.

Woman: Alright.  Sorry.  My bad.

The captain goes down after Jonah.

CAPTAIN (shouting)
How can you sleep at a time like this?

Jonah jumps up.

Jonah :What!  What is it?

Captain : Get up and pray to your god!  Maybe he will have mercy on us and spare our lives.

Sea man#1 :This is all your fault isn't it?

Sea Man#2 : Captain, the crew is casting lots to see which of us have offended the gods and caused the terrible storm.

Sea Man #1 :This man should toss as well, for I feel he is to blame.

JONAH:
(mocking him)
For I feel  he is to blame.  Why it's gotta be me?  All of these people on this ship, and you blame me.

Scene come up with Jonah having lost the toss.

Captain: What have you done to bring this awful storm down on us?

Sea Man#2: Who are you?

Sea Man #3 : What is your line of work?

Sea Man #2 : What country are you from?

Captain : What is your nationality?

JONAH:
What is the problem?

Sailor #1: Captain there's a mad woman Running around the deck screaming something about the titanic.  She's telling the men that their going to die...What should we do with her?

Captain : Throw her overboard!

JONAH: 
No!  No, don't do that.  It is, all my fault.I am a Hebrew, and I worship the LORD, the God of heaven, who made the sea and the land.  However, I am running away from the Him.

Sea Man#2 : What!  What!  Ah!  (He faints)

Sea Man#1 Why did you bring this on us?  What should we do to you to stop this storm?

Captain : Throw him over board!

Sea Man#2: Captain, is that the answer for everything?  Gotta go to the bathroom, Throw him over board, gotta eat, throw him over board, what's next?

JONAH: 
He's right.  The captain is right.  That's all you can do if you wish to save your lives.

Throw me into the sea, and it will become calm again.  For I know that this terrible storm is all my fault.

Sea Man#1 : Well if it's your fault, jump.  Why we gotta throw you.

Sea Man#3 : That's murder one.

Captain: Yea, that is murder.  I'm a murderer, I'm a murderer.

Sea Man#1: Captain, captain snap out of it.  We didn't throw the woman overboard.  She's probably still out there Running around.

Scene shows woman falling into the water.  They can see her from the window.

Sailor #1: She Jumped!

The men are trying to row the boat ashore.  But the stormy sea was too violent for them, I don't think we can  make it.

Sea Man#1: So are you gonna jump?

Jonah nods no.

JONAH: 
I scared.

Sea Man#1: Grab him!

Captain:  O LORD,don't make us die for this man's sin.

They begin to swing Jonah.

JONAH: 
Ahh!  Ahh!

Captain : And don't hold us responsible for his death, because it isn't our fault.  O LORD, you have sent this storm upon him for your own good reasons.

Then the sailors threw him into the raging sea.

As a band is playing like a scene from the titanic.

Band Member:  It's been a pleasure playing with you.

Band Member #2: My pleasure.

JONAH: 
Ahhhhhhhhhhhh!

The storm stopped at once!  The sailors were awe-struck by the LORD's great power, and they offered him a sacrifice and vowed to serve him.  As the men look over to the water they see the large whale opening it's mouth to swallow Jonah.

Sea Man#1: Orca!!!!!

Sea Man#2 slaps Sea Man #1 in back of his head & said:

That ant no Orca, that's jaws.

As the woman is seen climbing up a rope that was hanging from the boat.

Jonah is afraid, he is looking all around himself under the water.  Suddenly a great fish appears.  Jonah panics and tries to swim fast to get away.  The fish opens it's mouth to swallow Jonah.  Jonah faints.  When he wakes, he is inside of the fish's belly.  Jonah look a around, he holds his nose because of the awful smell.

JONAH: 
Is this hell?

The whale's belly growls.  Jonah looks afraid.

JONAH:
Satan?  (As he looks around) o Lord, what have I done?  How foolish can I be.  You've always been good to me, and do I for you in return?

The whale moves and Jonah falls down.

JONAH: 
Wait a minute.  This thing is moving.  Lord, where am I at?  Is this the fish?  I'm on the inside of the fish?

Nemo swims by Jonah's feet.

JONAH: 
I could have been dead.  I..I..could have been eaten alive.

FISH (NEMO LOOK A LIKE):

You were eaten alive...(turning to other fish)

BRIGHT GUY! (LAUGHING)

JONAH:
Thank you Lord!  I'm still alive, I'm alive.

Fish: I wonder how he plan on staying that way?

He show better not be thinking of eaten no fish.

Fish #2: I know that's right.  He need to sit down somewhere.

JONAH:
O LORD, you have driven me from your presence.  How will I ever again see your holy Temple?

Fish: Who is he talking to?

The other fish shrinks his shoulders.

JONAH:
I sank beneath the waves, and death was very near.  The waters closed in around me, and seaweed wrapped itself around my head.  I sank down to the very roots of the mountains.  I was locked out of life and imprisoned in the land of the dead.  But you, O LORD my God, have snatched me from the yawning jaws of death!

Crab: walks over to the other fish carrying popcorn.

Crab I'm back.  Did I miss anything?

Fish: Na, man, he talking to his self.

Fish #2: His mind is gone.

JONAH:
When I had lost all hope, I turned my thoughts once more to you LORD!  My earnest prayer went out to you in your holy Temple!

Fish swims away.

Fish#2 : Hey, where you going?

Fish:  I'm gonna tell this whale to bite him, he's getting on my nerves.

JONAH:
Those who worship false gods turn their backs on all of your mercies.  But I will offer sacrifices to you with songs of praise, and I will fulfill all my vows.  For my salvation comes from the LORD alone.  (Falling to his knees)

Crab: Man..he's good.

Fish#2 : Yea, he could get an Oscar for this.

JONAH:
This is no act!  I'm serious.  I am ashamed!  (Weeping)

Crab and fish pause and look scared.

Crab: He... can... hear... us?

FISH (looking unsure):
Nah...this fish talk.

JONAH:
Yes I can hear you.

The crab and the fish look scared and they take off.  Suddenly the fish spit out Jonah on the beach.  The crab is spit out as well.  The crab see Jonah and takes off screaming.

Then the LORD spoke to Jonah a second time.

God: Get up and go to the great city of Nineveh, and deliver the message of judgment I have given you.

This time Jonah obeyed the LORD's command and went to Nineveh.  The city is a post modern LA.  People are walking around selling and buying.  Homeless people are on the streets.  Break dancers are dancing.  Bank robbers run from a bank with a police chase.  There is a burger restaurant.  A pizza shop.  The city is very busy and loud.  Jonah enters the town center and shouts from the top of his lungs.

JONAH:
Forty days from now Nineveh will be destroyed!

All grows silent.

JONAH:
I said... Forty days from now Nineveh will be destroyed!  God is mad at you.

Silence.

Jonah clears his throat.

JONAH:
You have been , mean.  Hum...You do a lot of bad things.  So, that's it.

SILENCE

JONAH:
Enough...is...enough.

SILENCE

JONAH:
I can't help ya.  Should'a listen.

The people of Nineveh begin to mumble as Jonah slowly steps down and walk through the crowds nervously.  Then Jonah went out to the east side of the city and made a shelter to sit under as he waited to see if anything would happen to the city.

Woman: O God, have mercy!  Please forgive us!

People begin to look up to God and fall to their knees pleading for forgiveness.

They decided to go without food and wear sackcloth to show their sorrow.  The king of Nineveh heard what Jonah was saying, he stepped down from his throne and took off his royal robes.  He dressed himself in sackcloth and sat on a heap of ashes.  Then the king and his nobles sent this decree throughout the city.

King's Men (shouts to a trumpet)

(Jonah stands where on the hill to see what is going on)

Jonah:
No one, not even the animals, may eat or drink anything at all.  Everyone is required to wear sackcloth and pray earnestly to God.  Everyone must turn from their evil ways and stop all their violence.  Who can tell?  Perhaps even yet God will have pity on us and hold back his fierce anger from destroying us.

JONAH:
What!  (Pacing back and fourth) What!

When God see that they have put a stop to their evil ways, he have mercy on them and decide not to carry out the destruction.

JONAH:
(looking up to God)
Nothing is happening.  Don't tell me you believe them.  Come on.  Did I not say before I left home that you would do this, LORD?  You know, that's why I ran away to Tarshish!  I knew that you were a gracious and compassionate God, slow to get angry and filled with unfailing love.  I knew how easily you could cancel your plans for destroying these people.  Just kill me now, LORD!  I'd rather be dead than alive because nothing I predicted is going to happen.

God: Is it right for you to be angry about this?

Jonah walks over to a large plant and sits down under it's shade.  It shades him from the hot sun.  This eased some of his discomfort, and Jonah was very grateful for the plant.Jonah falls off to sleep, murmuring and complaining.

The next morning at dawn a worm eats through the stem of the plant, so that it soon died and withered away.

Jonah tries to swat the worm.

Worm: Hey man, I'm just following orders here.  Hey watch it.  Hey!

Scene cuts to the sun growing hotter.  Then  God sent a scorching east wind to blow on Jonah.Jonah keeps falling down and trying to get back up.  He is mad.  Fighting at the wind.  Suddenly the wind stops however the sun begins to beat down on his head until he grew faint and wished to die.

JONAH (pitiful):
Fine then.  Fine.  Death is certainly better than this!

Lord, What I do?  Why you mad?

God Jonah, is it right for you to be angry because the plant died?

JONAH:
Yes,even angry enough to die!  (Peeping up at God as he seeks pity)

LORD:
Jonah, you feel sorry about the plant that shaded you, though you did nothing to put it there.  And a plant is only, at best, short lived.

Worm: Yea, hum, I gotta eat too.  I got a family.

God: Nineveh has more than 120,000 people living in spiritual darkness,not to mention all the animals.  Shouldn't I feel sorry for such a great city?

Worm: Yea, they killing worms down there, using us for bait.  It was crazy.  We had to move.  Then here you come trying to keep a brother down.

Jonah (thinking, understanding now):

I'm sorry Lord..(as he looks down at to Nineveh, a mother is holding her child)

Yes...yes Lord.  I understand.  I understand.

Suddenly the woman from the boat falls to the ground, soak and wet.

WOMAN:
LAND!!!!

Jonah looks at her and kind of moves away quietly.  As if she is crazy.

Scene cuts.
Jonah, The Man- Draft.txt
Displaying Jonah, The Man- Draft.txt.